[OGATA]
Want me to give you that reason?
I'm the one who
killed your father, Asirpa.
[ASIRPA gasps]
Ogata!
Ah--
[gasps]
The key is inside of you...
Go...
Please, the key is--
You can't go yet! Is it really
true that you killed Aca?
[ASIRPA]
Kiroranke Nispa!
Answer me!
[laughing]
[SUGIMOTO growls]
Heh.
[SUGIMOTO] I'll wait
until you get all better.
And then I'll kill you.
[SUGIMOTO]
Asirpa.
[ASIRPA]
Hmm?
You and I are
still partners in this.
Good.
[SUGIMOTO, ASIRPA]
Toh, toh, toh! Toh, toh, toh!
[NARRATOR] Sugimoto's party
continued their journey,
leaving the village of the
Nivkh, and quickly making
their way towards
the Russo-Japanese border.
[GROUP] Toh, toh, toh!
Toh, toh, toh! Toh, toh, toh!
We're rushin' outta Russia!
I sent out a telegram
to Lieutenant Tsurumi.
Letting him know we've
crossed the border with Asirpa.
Good work.
[KOITO]
Lieutenant Tsurumi...
I can't wait to get back
and see your smile again.
Please wait for me!
--Ahh...!
--Anyway.
He's going to send his response
to the post office at Toyohara.
I imagine the lieutenant will
want to speak with Asirpa
as soon as possible.
Ah...!
We should hurry up.
Right. Everyone!
We'll go as far as we can
before nightfall.
Hold on! I don't see Sugimoto.
Huh...?
[SUGIMOTO] All right!
I got my hands on some miso!
I bet this'll make
Asirpa feel better.
You squeezed it out! Thank you!
[SHIRAISHI]
But he was just here.
Where could he have run off to?
[gunshot echoes]
Get down, now!
Shiraishi!
[grunting]
[SHIRAISHI groans]
[ASIRPA]
Shiraishi! Can you move?!
Try to get behind a building!
[SHIRAISHI]
They got me in the leg!
Stay in cover.
We can hide here!
I know what you're thinking--
Don't go!
They hit him in
the leg on purpose.
They're trying to use him
as bait to draw us out.
It's an old sniper's trick.
What should we do?
[KOITO]
Did you see the shooter?
No, but you have
to keep your head down,
Lieutenant.
Of course. Tsukishima,
give me your hand mirror!
Sorry, I-- My what?
[KOITO] You don't have
a mirror, you cretin?
No wonder your face
is always so filthy!
Just grab one out of my luggage!
[growls]
Here you go.
[KOITO] You're getting
fingerprints on it, you fool!
To fire at us
from that distance...
Only one person I know could
pull off a shot like that.
[TANIGAKI growls]
[SHIRAISHI]
It's gotta be Ogata!
I can't believe
he's back already!
[gasps]
[KOITO] Looks like
he's got a bead on us.
Have any suggestions?
[SUGIMOTO panting]
I'll split his head open
and feed his brain miso!
Over there. Sugimoto!
I saw him running there,
in between the buildings.
That doesn't make sense.
Why would Ogata
just ignore him like that?
Shiraishi! Crawl
your ass over here!
If we don't bandage you up,
you'll bleed out!
Keep dreaming!
I don't wanna get shot again!
Why don't you
come over here, huh?!
Tanigaki! Let's hide behind
the sled and push it to him.
We can't just sit here!
No way! If that's Ogata out
there, you can't risk it!
We have to do something!
[SHIRAISHI]
Stay where you are, Asirpa!
Hey! This way, doggies!
Look at what I've
got in my hand here!
A yummy Russian treat!
Don't you wanna give it a try?
[ENONOKA grunts]
[SHIRAISHI] You care more
about the dogs than me?!
--[growling]
--[CROWS cawing]
Ah! Crows!
If I throw these in the air,
I can attract a flock
to cover my escape!
It'll be perfect!
Come and get it!
[twittering]
[growling]
They're so cute...
[VASILI]
I recognize this man.
He was traveling
with you back then.
So come out.
We have unfinished business.
Let's pick up where we left off.
Trying to make him
waste his ammo?
I'm keeping
the sniper distracted.
I'm trying to
give him an opening.
--[gasps]
--Wait, who?
[SUGIMOTO panting]
[HAJIME] The reason why snipers
are dangerous is they can
strike from a distance where
they can't be fired back on.
Their greatest fear is being
ambushed in their nest.
That is especially true...
...when your enemy is
the Immortal Sugimoto.
[SUGIMOTO panting]
[VASILI gasps]
Footsteps?
Wait... Did someone just
come into the building?
I can sense their presence.
The same way you can feel a bear
lurking in the undergrowth.
It's like... I'm about
to be attacked
by a bloodthirsty beast.
[SUGIMOTO] I'll let him
fire the first shot.
Then, I'll have
a small window to act,
while he's chambering
another round.
That's when I'll make my move.
I can't rely on this.
He's not the kind of man who'll
go down with a single shot.
If I want to be sure I've got
him, I need to get in close...
Ogata...
I'll finish you myself!
[VASILI]
A mirror?
[gasps]
[VASILI] I figured you'd
try something like that.
Just who the hell are you?!
[VASILI]
Distance...
[VASILI] As long as I create
some space between us,
I can't lose.
[VASILI grunts]
[gasping]
[SUGIMOTO grunts]
Huh?!
What the hell is that?
Did you draw this?
[KOITO]
You there! Stop! Stay away!
You'll be shot! Get down!
Look, there are soldiers.
What are they doing?
[HAJIME]
Hmm?
Seems like Sugimoto stopped him.
[ASIRPA]
Tch!
[gasps]
Asirpa!
[ASIRPA]
Sugimoto!
[SUGIMOTO] So tell me.
You friends with Ogata?
Did this man tell you
to attack us?
Where can I find him?
Come on!
[VASILI groans]
[SUGIMOTO]
What's this?
Is that you?
--[VASILI] Pew!
--[SUGIMOTO] I see.
So, I guess...
...you were looking for Ogata?
[SUGIMOTO] Huh...?
You thought Shiraishi and Asirpa
were traveling with him.
Sorry, these two have nothing
to do with this.
[VASILI gasps]
[SUGIMOTO]
It's all his fault!
[VASILI grunting]
[SUGIMOTO]
That's right, good!
That bastard shot me, too.
You know? Bang!
[SUGIMOTO]
Let me draw it out for you.
While we were at
Abashiri Prison, he shot me,
then tried to take
Asirpa and run off.
He teamed up with Kiroranke to
kill Nopperabo for some reason.
I still can't figure
out when exactly
they started working together.
He's not a spider!
Asirpa ended up shooting him
with a poisoned arrow.
Although, I don't believe
she did it on purpose.
I did what I had to to save him.
I didn't want her to carry
the guilt of his death.
Whenever I see Asirpa,
it almost feels like
there's some part of me
that's still good.
And I wanna do whatever I can
to hold on to that feeling.
To be good.
[TANIGAKI]
Sugimoto. What are you doing?
[SUGIMOTO]
Huh?
[ASIRPA]
I've seen him before.
I think he was one of the
Russian soldiers who ambushed
Kiroranke Nispa at the border.
[HAJIME speaking Russian]
[SHIRAISHI]
Hey, Mister Russian Soldier!
Next time you
wanna find someone,
why don't you use your words
like a normal person?
Instead of just
shooting me in the leg?!
I'm still waiting for
an apology, y'know!
What, do you not have a word
for "sorry" back in Russia?
[gasps]
[whimpers]
Guess that explains
why he's not talking.
Just get your dumb ass
back to Russia, ya dick.
Heads up, that guy's
still following us.
Looks like he stole a horse.
You think he suspects us
of being involved
with the emperor's murder?
Trust me. He's not interested
in Kiroranke Nispa anymore.
Huh?
[ASIRPA] He was using
the back of the wanted poster
for his drawings.
So he figures if he sticks with
us, he'll eventually find Ogata?
He's the type that won't stop
until one of them is dead.
They have that in common,
I suppose.
Yeah.
[ASIRPA] Do you think Ogata
will really come back?
[SUGIMOTO] If you're the key
to cracking the code
and finding the gold,
I'd say chances are good.
I guess. But it seemed like
he wanted to kill me.
Could he be after something
other than the gold?
[SUGIMOTO]
I wouldn't put it past him.
He might just be trying
to mess with us.
[SUGIMOTO] Sofia's the only
person who can tell us
what's really going on.
And as much as I want to go to
the continent to search for her,
we can't.
The 7th Division
has other plans.
They don't care
about any of that.
Their top priority is bringing
Asirpa back to Japan.
Hell, the only reason Tanigaki
came along was to make sure
Asirpa made it back
to her tribe safely.
[ASIRPA] The first part of
the plan that Kiroranke Nispa
and Sofia came up with
was to gather comrades
on the continent.
Of course, she's not the type
to sit still and do nothing.
[NARRATOR] Many laborers flocked
to Lake Akan to work in
the nearby coal mines
and salmon fishing trade.
And so, a town was built
for the workers to live in.
[NAGAKURA] I'm starting
to get a little worried.
Ushiyama and Hijikata
disappeared without a word
two days ago.
It's not like them to
run off without warning.
They probably found some
girls to keep 'em company.
Even if something happened,
those two guys are
pretty much invincible.
[NAGAKURA groans]
[KADOKURA] All right, fine!
Just sit tight, okay, Nagakura?
We'll track 'em down.
[KIRAWUS] There's a prisoner
rumored to be hiding nearby.
I wonder if they went after him.
Maybe they're already dead?
Do you really think so?
Huh, well, guess it's possible.
When it comes to fighting,
he's worthless.
But he's clever,
I'll give him that.
Hold on, you're saying you
know the escaped prisoner?
[KADOKURA] Of course,
I used to be his jailor!
Though, truth be told,
I'm more used to looking at him
from behind,
if you catch my drift.
No, I really don't.
[KADOKURA]
Waichiro Sekiya. A veterinarian.
Traveled around
treating farm animals
and stuff all over Hokkaido.
After he was caught, the quack
confessed to using strychnine--
which he'd use to
exterminate wolves--
along with potassium cyanide,
arsenic, and other poisons
to take the lives of 30 men.
[SEKIYA] I thought
the flavor of the miso
would hide the bitterness.
I had laced one of the bowls
of soup with wolfsbane
just to see what would happen.
But the broth was
too thin to cover it up.
And he kept complaining that
the soup tasted strange today.
Too bad.
[gasping]
You monster! Ugh!
The hell's wrong with you?!
[SEKIYA] I can see the reason
why you became a yakuza boss.
You're quite fortunate.
I enjoy testing
other people's luck.
It's not my fault that
his luck wasn't good enough.
[WAKAYAMA growls]
[KADOKURA] Turns out,
Sekiya found some wolfsbane
while he was out on work detail.
And somehow managed
to sneak it back inside.
After that day, the higher-ups
gave me a special assignment.
Every time he returned to jail,
I'd have to check his asshole
You realize if he stuck
that stuff up his ass,
he'd poison himself, right?
So there's no way
he'd hide it there.
You buncha morons.
[KADOKURA sighs]
I coulda gone the rest of my
life without hearing that.
[speaking Ainu]
[KADOKURA]
Kirawus!
There's some more
Ainu down that way.
You should ask them, too.
Yeah, why don't you go do it
yourself, Mr. Ass-inspector?
You may not like it, but I still
work for your boss, you know?
[sighs] I'm gonna be stuck
in middle management forever.
[KID laughing]
[KADOKURA] Hey! Hold up
a second, fat kid!
I wanna talk to you.
Have you seen a scary guy
with white hair who kinda
looks like a monster?
You there! How was that?
What do you mean?
One time, in Hakodate, I got to
see a foreigner perform a dance!
Wouldn't it be wonderful if you
could dance while skating?
What a marvelous idea!
[NARRATOR]
Behold: the birth of Japan's
first ever figure skater!
Whatever.
[CHIYOTAROU] I saw the man
you were talking about.
--[KADOKURA] Huh?
--He was here yesterday,
standing where you are now.
What was he doing here?
The hell is this?
[SEKIYA] Do you see
those silkworm cocoons
in front of you?
Half of them are poisoned, and
contain either fugu neurotoxin,
arsenic, wolfsbane,
or strychnine.
The other half
contain no poison at all.
Take one, and I'll let
Ushiyama go free.
[HIJIKATA] I'm not interested
in playing your game.
No matter where you run,
I'll chase you down,
and rip your skin
off while you scream.
Hey, you're Toshizou Hijikata,
aren't you?
Help me out here,
why would someone like you
be chasing after
the stolen gold?
What're you trying to do?
[HIJIKATA] He has a horse!
I can't let him get away.
[SEKIYA] I used a small
amount of fugu poison
to paralyze Ushiyama.
Afterwards, I buried him
for safe keeping.
He's still alive. For now.
You're more than welcome
to chase after me.
But I'm afraid your friend
is running out of time.
That's fine, I've already
made a copy of his tattoos.
[SEKIYA]
You know, it's funny.
When I told him that I'd
kidnapped and buried you,
he took one without
a second thought.
I believe those who follow
the righteous path are blessed
with good fortune.
Men make their own luck,
after all.
Show me that your path
is the correct one.
[SEKIYA]
Take a cocoon.
Try your luck.
[HIJIKATA]
Hmm.
[SEKIYA] Each cocoon contained
a lethal dose of poison.
Incredible. He's still alive.
From his symptoms, looks like
he took the fugu tetrodotoxin.
Now that I have Hijikata,
his comrades will hand over
all their tattooed
skins to get him back.
I just need to find
a place to hide him.
What's this doing here?
With that fatty's testimony,
along with
this mysterious white cocoon...
Mm-hmm.
...it can only mean:
We don't have a damn clue
where they are.
[MAN]
Hey, you there!
[KIRAWUS]
Hmm?
I came out here
to catch salmon.
But all that's biting
is pond smelt.
There's no way
I can eat 'em all.
You want any?
[KIRAWUS]
Oh, appreciate it!
[MAN] Fry 'em up and
eat them with your friends!
That's right, salmon only
start getting active towards
the end of the fall.
You're not gonna catch
many this time of year.
I'm guessing you're
not from around here.
Nope.
[KIRAWUS] Kadokura! Somebody
gave me a bunch of chika.
Oh! That's pretty lucky!
This'll be a good treat while we
wait for those muscleheads
to come back.
We're going back to the inn?
[SEKIYA]
Little do you know...
...I put a lethal amount of
tetrodotoxin in the mouth of
one of those fish.
It's a deadly poison that
remains potent even after
it's been cooked!
Now, will you be given
blessings or judgment?
Even a choice as small
as which fish you eat
can change your fate.
Waugh!
Uh... Uh...
No way.
Sorry about that, Kirawus.
And they were such
a nice gift, too.
Oh, that's not what I meant.
[groans]
It's fine, I get it.
That's how it is with me.
I was on a school trip,
and out of 40 kids,
I'm the one to fall into
a snow-covered pit.
I'm telling you,
there could be a wildfire,
and only my house would burn.
I've always been
extremely unlucky.
[KIRAWUS grunts]
I was born under a bad star,
if you believe in
that sort of thing.
[NARRATOR] Former Head Jailer
Kadokura possesses
horrifically bad luck!
[NARRATOR] Next time:
"Cocoon."